# Rules of Custom Hooks

## Overview

One of the most powerful features of React hooks is that they give us the
ability to share logic and state between multiple components by writing our own
_custom hooks_. You've already encountered some custom hooks: the `useParams`
and `useHistory` hooks from React Router are hooks that let us access the params
and history objects from React Router in any component we want.

There are several reasons we might want to create a custom hook. For example, we
might want to:

- **reuse logic** between multiple components
- **simplify the code in our components** to focus more on UI and less on state
  and effects

### How to Make a Custom Hook

Let's go through an example of extracting a hook. Here's a simple counter
component:

```js live=true render=true
function App() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  function increment() {
    setCount(count => count + 1);
  }

  function decrement() {
    setCount(count => count - 1);
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Count: {count}</h1>
      <button onClick={increment}>+</button>
      <button onClick={decrement}>-</button>
    </div>
  );
}

render(<App />);
```

In this component, we've got one state variable, `count`, and a couple of
functions that are used to update state. We could extract that out to a custom
hook to help isolate the component's UI logic from the state management logic.

According to React:

> A _custom Hook_ is a JavaScript function whose name starts with ”use” and that
> may call other Hooks

So all we need in order to make this into a _custom hook_ of our own is to:

- write a function;
- make sure it starts with _use_; and
- put some other React hooks, like `useState` and `useEffect`, inside it!

As an example, here's how the code from our component could be extracted to a
custom `useCount` hook:

```js
import { useState } from "react";

function useCount(initialCount) {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(initialCount);

  function increment() {
    setCount(count => count + 1);
  }

  function decrement() {
    setCount(count => count - 1);
  }

  return { count, increment, decrement };
}
```

Notice that in this function, we're taking in one argument and using that for
the `initialCount` value of our state.

We're also returning an object that has three properties:

- `count`: The current state of our counter
- `increment`: A function to increment the count
- `decrement`: A function to decrement the count

Now we can use this custom hook in any component we want! In our example
component from before, here's how it would work:

```js live=true render=true
import { useState } from "react";

// useCount hook (this can be defined in another file)
function useCount(initialCount) {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(initialCount);

  function increment() {
    setCount(count => count + 1);
  }

  function decrement() {
    setCount(count => count - 1);
  }

  return { count, increment, decrement };
}

// use the hook in any component you want!
function App() {
  // destructure the object that is returned from useCount
  const { count, increment, decrement } = useCount(0);

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Count: {count}</h1>
      <button onClick={increment}>+</button>
      <button onClick={decrement}>-</button>
    </div>
  );
}

render(<App />);
```

## Exercise

In this exercise, we have a component that is using the `useEffect` hooks to
update the document title. Your job is to create a custom `useDocumentTitle`
hook by extracting the logic from the component into a new function.

For this custom hook, our function doesn't need to take any arguments or return
anything.

You shouldn't have to write too much code for this one! You can check if your
solution is working by clicking the _Open in new tab_ link above the exercise,
and looking at the title in the browser tab.

If you're getting stuck, try checking the
[React Documentation on Custom Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-custom.html)
for inspiration!

### Extra Credit

We saw in the counter example that it's possible to pass a value into our custom
hook:

```js
function App() {
  const { count, increment, decrement } = useCount(0);
  // etc
}
```

See if you can update the `useDocumentTitle` hook to take in one argument,
`title`, and use that argument in your `useEffect` hook to display a title based
on whatever value is passed in!

> Don't forget to update the dependencies array for your useEffect hook too!
