# Putting It Together: useLocalStorage

## Overview

To put all your custom hook skills to the test, let's make one more utility: a
custom hook that will let us save data to `localStorage` and retrieve it in our
component state when the user refreshes the page.

This particular React hook has a lot of utilities, as evidenced by the sheer
[number of versions of this hook available as npm packages](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=localstorage%20react%20hook&ranking=popularity).
It's also a good test of your ability to make a custom hook that will let us
consider how to make something that's reusable and optimized.

Let's give it a shot!

## Exercise

We've got typical controlled form set up that persists its values to state
whenever the value of the input field is updated. However, if our use navigates
away from the page or refreshes while they're in the middle of filling out the
form, they'll lose their work!

To persist their changes, we can use `localStorage`, which lets us save and
retrieve data associated with a particular website in the browser's memory, so
that it can be retrieved if they refresh the page or open the same site in a new
tab. Here's how it works:

```js
localStorage.setItem("username", "ian");
localStorage.getItem("username");
// => "ian"
```

Your job is to make a `useLocalStorage` hook that keeps track of state, and
keeps `localStorage` in sync with that state. By keeping `localStorage` in sync
with state, we'll be able to retrieve data from `localStorage` and use that as
the initial state if the user refreshes the page!

To see what a working example looks like, try out the demo in the **Solutions**
tab first &mdash; enter some text in the login form, and refresh the page. You
should see the same value you entered in be persisted!

### Extra Credit 1

For the first form, saving a string to `localStorage` works just fine. However,
it'd be nice if we could save objects and arrays in `localStorage` too!

Unfortunately, one limitation of `localStorage` is that it can _only save string
values_:

```js
localStorage.setItem("an_object", { hi: "there" });
localStorage.getItem("an_object");
// => "[object Object]"
```

So you will need a way to _stringify_ any values to a string before persisting
them to `localStorage`, and _parse_ the values when reading them out of
`localStorage`.

Stuck on how to convert objects to strings?

> Hint 1: remember when you're sending data to an a API using fetch, you can
> send a string by using `JSON.stringify()`? You'll want to do something similar
> here!

Getting an error?

> Hint 2: you might need to add some error handling, like a
> [try/catch block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch),
> when using `JSON.parse()` the content from localStorage.

### Extra Credit 2

If you're a tab hoarder like me, sometimes you'll end up with the same website
open in multiple windows at the same time! It'd be nice if the state from one
window was kept in sync with the state in the other window by our hook.

Luckily for us, there's an
[event we can listen for](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/storage_event)
in the browser to handle these changes!

Update your hook to persist values to `localStorage` even if they're made in
another window. You'll need to add an event listener by adding a `useEffect`
hook in your `useLocalStorage` function, and listen for the `storage` event.

Remember to clean up your event listeners too!

> Try opening the exercise in multiple tabs to test this out!
